# ee186_lab2_submission
Written respones EE 186

1. External Interrupts: External interrupts (EXTI) can be configuring EXTI registers to enable the interrupt based on desired settings. For instance, in this lab we used the GPIO external interrupts, and specifically EXTI 13 for PC13. This meant we had to configure EXTI13 to use the C port of GPIO. Afterwards, we enable EXTI13 and set it to be triggered on either a falling or rising edge of the pulse generated by a button press and release. Depending on the edge being used for a trigger, a button release or press would halt the main program and take us to the ISR for EXTI13, clear the interrupt, complete the routine and return to the main program.
2. Timer Interrupts : Timers increment bits by counting clock cycles. This gives a 1:1 mapping to bits to time, since the clock cycle is 1/clk_freq.  The clock frequency can be scaled by a prescaler value using the PSC value. Depending on the register width of the timer (32 bits or 16 bits), the timer can increment values to (2^(width) - 1) * clock period.  Once the timer hits the max  value set by the ARR register, an interrupt can will be fired if the corresponding interrupt enable bit has been set. Once the timer counts to the set value, an interrupt is fired and the ISR for TIMx executes, where the interrupt is cleared, routine is completed and we return to the main program.
3. Calculating Timer Frequency
* prescaler = (319 + 1) -> 16MHz/320 = 50kHz clock period 2ms
* ARR = 0xC34F = (49,999 + 1) = 50,000
* (clk_freq/prescaler)^-1 * ARR = 1s
